# GlobalWFHAttitudes-DataScience-Jupyter
### This data project consists of several notebooks working with a dataset created from a work from home survey. It includes data reduction, data cleaning, data wrangling, then applies supervised machine learning to the resultant dataset.

    Copyright (C) 2023  Dee Weinacht

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
    
**Description**

This is a data preprocessing and supervised machine learning data science project. It uses a dataset sources from the Global Survey of Working Arrangements (G-SWA) [WFH Research](https://wfhresearch.com/gswadata/).


This project includes several files:

- *Data Cleaning.ipynb*
    - This Notebook performs data cleaning operations on a global work-from-home survey dataset in preparation for supervised machine learning
        - Data import
        - Dataset reduction
        - Fixing structural errors
        - Filling missing values
        - Data validation
- *G-SWA Clean Data Dictionary.txt*
    - This text file describes the features of the G-SWA Clean dataset.
- *G-SWA Clean.xlsx*
    - This excel file contains the resulting dataset after data cleaning has been performed by Data Cleaning.ipynb
- *G-SWA ML Data Dictionary.txt
    - This text file describes the features of the G-SWA ML dataset.
- *G-SWA ML.xlsx*
    - This excel file contains the dataset prepared for machine learning after data wrangling has been performed by Machine Learning.ipynb
- *G-SWA.xlsx*
    - This excel file contains the original complete dataset from the Global Survey of Working Arrangements.
- *Machine Learning.ipynb*
    - This Notebook applies data wrangling and supervised machine learning to a clean global work-from-home survey dataset.
        - Data import
        - Data wrangling
        - Train-test split
        - Address class imbalance
        - k-nearest neighbor's classifier model
        - Multilayer perceptron classifier model
        - Results

**User's Guide**

The notebook files can be ran using a locally installed version of JupyterLab or Jupyter Notebook. The "G-SWA.xlsx" should be located in the same directory as the notebook files; the other excel files are generated by running the notebooks. Alternatively, as the notebooks are static, they can be viewed directly on GitHub.

**Attribution**

Data sourced from the Global Survey of Working Arrangements (G-SWA), used under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License: Aksoy, Cevat Giray, Jose Maria Barrero, Nicholas Bloom, Steven J. Davis, Mathias Dolls and Pablo Zarate, 2022. “Working from Home Around the World,” Brookings Papers on Economic Activity.
